- [Instructor] So now it's time
to run our first snippet of code for this course.
We will be implementing our first spring data repository
and using our embedded databases as a data store.
So let's jump into the IDE.
So the first thing I want to do is go into source, main,
resources, and we're going to open up the schema file.
'Cause we're going to use this schema file to do work
when we're building things.
It makes it easier to have it up in front of us.
So now let's go to source, main, Java.
And in our main package,
let's add a new package called data.
Now in our data package,
we will create a Java class
and we are going to call this class, Room.
Now there's a few things that we need to do
to our Room class. The first thing that we're going to do
is we're going to
annotate it with @Entity from javax.persistence.
Then we are going to annotate it with @Table,
and I'm going to specify the name of the Table
like it is in the schema.
With some databases this is not a requirement,
but with this,
I find it removes confusion
in case you're not able to use H2
and you've got to use another embedded database.
So let's just define our Table name based on the schema,
which if we look at the schema file is ROOM in all caps.
And again,
we're going to import this from javax.persistence.
Now, if we go look at our Room class, once again,
you'll see that we have four values in here
and I'm simply going to copy those schema definitions
and paste them into my code.
And I know that this is not going to compile,
but that's fine.
It gives me something heads up to look at.
So we're going to start with our Room ID.
So we're going to call this @Id from javax.persistence,
@GeneratedValue, and the GeneratedValue
that we will use is a strategy of auto.
Now this is the default strategy,
but I still prefer to go ahead and specify it.
Now there's one more annotation that we need to specify.
And this is Column, and much like Table,
there are defaults that oftentimes will work,
but I prefer to go ahead and specify them
just to be very clear.
Then I don't have to deal with issues across databases.
Now this is going to be a long and an id
and BIGSERIAL and SQL will translate to a long.
So now we're going to do the same, put a Column,
and then define our variable for the next three entries.
Now that we've typed all of our values in,
the only thing left on this class is to generate
some Getters and Setters.
And I'm going to go ahead and do that
using my IDE with a plugin
that allows me to do generating of Getters and Setters.
Now you can do a few things.
You could make this a Lombok class
by adding Lombok to your spring config.
Great, it'll do the Getters and Setters for you.
Or you can go ahead and use the plugin in your id
like I'm doing so that we get Getters and Setters.
Now, there's one other thing
that I like to do on these classes, just for demo.
And that is, I am going to override the toString method.
Now that that is done, we are done with our Room class.
So now we're going to create a new file.
And this time we are going to create
an Interface instead of a class.
We will call it RoomRepository.
I'm going to select Interface.
So the first thing we're going to do to our Room
is extend CrudRepository.
This is a templative value that takes two things.
First of all, it takes the entity.
Then it takes the class type of the id.
And in our case, it is a little L long,
which means we need to put the class type of big L Long.
Now, at this point we are done.
We have create, get all, get by id.
We've got everything that we need,
but there's one other thing that I add.
It is not required,
but I find that it makes it clearer when reading code.
There's a stereotype of @Repository.
Now this is already on the CrudRepository,
but by putting this here,
it makes it very clear to anybody looking at your code,
that this is a data repository.
So now we're going to add one more thing,
just so we can visualize our data access working.
We're going to create a new package called util.
And in that package, we are going to create a new Class.
And that Class is going to be AppStartupEvent.
We're going to annotate this with @Component
so that spring will pick it up.
This Class is going to implement our ApplicationListener.
And specifically,
we're going to look for the ApplicationReadyEvent.
Now, the reason we're doing this
is so that we can wait until spring
is actually done building and ready to do work
before we go and query the database,
because that's very important,
that the database is all set up
by the time we run this code.
So in here, we're going to add a few values.
First thing we're going to do
is do a private final RoomRepository.
And then because I've made that final,
we need to add it to a constructor.
Now in our override method,
we are going to do an Iterable Room.
We will call it rooms=this.roomRepository.
notice all of these methods that we never coded.
We got all of those for free and they actually will do work.
So we're going to go get all of the Rooms
and then we will do a Rooms for each.
And in here, we're simply going to do System.out::println.
And that's all there is to it.
Let's go ahead and start up our application.
And what you see is after the application started,
we now have standard output being written
that is listing each of our Rooms
based on our toString method that came from the database.
We never loaded those in,
that literally was a database call
to the embedded database with zero data access code.
All we did was code an Interface and an entity
that represented the Table.